---
title: Becon Academy Commonwealth
description: Home
---
Beacon Academy seeks to be a long-lasting community dedicated to nurturing the genius, passions, and potential in each child and parent through excellence in education, leadership, and individualized mentoring.

As a Commonwealth based on the principles of _A Thomas Jefferson Education_ (also known as Leadership Education), we seek to support families as they build on their Core, Love of Learning, and Scholar phases in the home. Our primary focus is on enhancing the Scholar phase through leadership, classical literature, and studying the history of Western Civilization.

<p style="text-align: center"><br></p>

Registration is currently full for the coming year. To apply for next year, to register if you are a current member, or for more information, please email Taylia at beaconacademysu at [gmail.com](http://gmail.com)

> > We meet at Henry's Place located at 3542 Bumblebee Dr. in Cedar City, Utah on Wednesdays. Fall semester classes begin August 20 and go till December 10. Winter semester classes begin January 7 and end May 13. Tuition for each class is $300 per year.

<h2 style="text-align: center"><strong><u>Junior Classes</u></strong></h2>

> > > > **Nursery** for ages 0-3                        **Liberty Girls** for girls 8-11
> 
> > > > **Builders** for ages 4-5                        **Knights of Freedom** for boys 8-11
> 
> > > > **Explorers** for ages 6-7 

Junior school classes are focused on love of learning, adapting curriculum content to the age of the students in each class. This year junior school will focus on leadership, and developing moral character as we study the world's countries, geography, and animals. In our classes we will use stories, poetry, art, animal science, music, and crafts to reiterate characteristics of leadership and confidence as we learn about our world. 

<h2 style="text-align: center"><u>Scholar Class Descriptions</u></h2>

## MORNING CORE CLASSES

**Shield of Freedom**                  Mentors: Tenya Hall, Whitney Laub

This practice scholar class is an opportunity for students to take charge of their own education. The course is centered on the timeless tales of Narnia and The Lord of the Rings, focusing on building integrity and courage through studying the lives and times of Lewis and Tolkien. Throughout the year we will read and discuss _Do Hard Things._ Students will practice and develop skills in reading, discussing, writing, and presenting. They will also work on projects related to their readings and set goals with a mentor. This is such a fun launch into scholar classes!     **Ages 11-12**

**Journey of a Hero**                         Mentors: Taylia Bunker, Shelley Schneider, Heather Rappleye

"What is mine to do?" This question launches us into an inspiring class where we explore the globe, learning from different cultures and how challenges are faced by amazing people the world over. In Journey we use great books, writing, presentations, fun activities, food, and a fantastic game to dive into true principles of human nature, leadership, and heroic character. In Journey we carefully build on our scholar skills one step at a time and use individualized mentoring and projects to help each child answer the question, "What is mine to do?" in their own life. **Ages 12-13**

**Our Story: Founding and Framing Freedom**         Mentors: Jenni Rock, Ashley Oborn

In this class we study the American Revolution, its leadership, and America's founding.  Get ready for a fantastic class with a flexible reading list, simulations, and lots of inspiring activities focused on our nation's founding and leadership. We will be discussing our readings in class, writing papers, memorizing and giving presentations.  **Ages 13-14**

**Rendezvous with Greatness**                 Mentors: Shannon Seright, Rachelle Howard, Deidre Henkel

Rendezvous with Greatness, meant to be taken after Our Story, delves into the history of the Civil War and World Wars I & II.  We’ll be reading, discussing, writing papers, and presenting in this class. By completing the first semester requirements you will earn a replica WWII sword!!          **Age 14-15**

**Compass of Truth**          Mentors: Lou Anne Randall, BreeAnna Laub

In Compass of Truth (Year Four), we will dive deeply into historical issues and classical literature, looking for principles of truth that are in harmony with the teachings of Jesus Christ, leading students and mentors to confront the questions of the past and of our day in a manner befitting a disciple of Jesus Christ. We seek to be transformed by our studies into people who can make a difference in the world.

Issues we will be studying—colonialism, racism, women’s rights, religion, governmental differences, and mass media. **Ages 15-18**

**Quest 1 & 2**         Mentors: Charity Garza, Andrea Barney, Kira Johnson

Think you’re ready to level up? Quest 1 & 2 is not your average class—it’s a full-on experience designed to push you, shape you, and help you become the kind of leader who actually makes a difference. Through writing, speaking, document studies, discussions, simulations, games, etc. you will grow leaps and bounds. In this advanced, year-long course you will explore the lives of six influential leaders; people like Patrick Henry, Martin Luther, and Abigail Adams. Students will learn to read with purpose, speak with confidence, break down complex ideas, and write with power in a way that actually matters. You’ll develop the skills of a true Statesman—someone who knows how to lead with integrity, stand up for what’s right, and inspire others to do the same.    **Ages 15-18**

AFTERNOON SCHOLAR CLASSES

**Adventures in Shakespeare** Mentors: Tia Fawson, Lacey Nakayama, Jenni Rock

This is a leadership class we encourage every student to take! We take on the challenge of studying Shakespeare. In the first semester, we study 3 plays, memorize quotes, give presentations, and get out of our comfort zone playing theater games. The second semester is devoted to learning lines, rehearsing, and putting on a play. This experience is transformative! The play will be put on at the end of the school year (April or May) and involves a final tech week that will take over your life for a while! But it will be something your kids will talk about and remember for the rest of their lives!! **Ages 12-13**

**Wealthy and Rad** Mentors: Alex Henkel, Brady Hall

"Wealthy and Rad" is a dynamic class created to teach students the power of personal finance in a fun and engaging way. Students will participate in all sorts of amazing hands-on activities such as shopping for an outfit, filling out a job application, and investing in their education and health. They will learn to save, invest, and give. They will gain both the knowledge and hands-on experience necessary to become "Wealthy and Rad."

This will be a one-semester class and will be offered in the fall.    **Ages 14+**

**Writing Class** Mentors: Lou Anne Randall, BreeAnna Laub

Dickens, Austen, Twain and more are authors who inspire. To write like them, produce great works, is something we desire. Each Thursday in our writing class, those skills we build and learn Will stretch and grow us till at last the writer’s craft we earn. Come to an afternoon writing class to learn writing skills and refine the papers you are writing for your morning classes. Let’s write like the greats! This will be a one-semester class and will be offered in the fall.    **Age 14+**

**Speaking and Leadership** Mentors: Matt Howard, Rachelle Howard

This class explores why we talk to each other and how to use our words to lead. Students will give organized and meaningful speeches, speak extemporaneously, and learn how to conduct a meeting. Classes will include instruction followed by an hour-long speaking meeting where students will deliver speeches and evaluate their classmates. The coursework will build toward the culminating event, a Night of Story, where class members will share their speaking and leadership with family and friends. This will be a one-semester class and will be offered in the winter/spring semester.    **Age 14+**

**Art Class** Mentors: Ashley Oborn, TBA

This class will allow you to learn about art and explore your creative side! We will have a brief art history introduction to learn about famous artists and their works. We will explore different methods and styles with emphasis on just a few select mediums (think sketching, watercolor, oils) and will most likely spend one to three class periods on a single art piece so you can really master each medium. This class is meant to dive a little deeper into art to explore and hone your abilities in a fun, relaxed way. We will also have some awesome guest artists come talk about their experiences! This will be a one-semester class and will be offered in the winter/spring semester.     **Age 14+**